# Examples

**Please note that this software in an early and experimental state and unsuitable for production.**
**These notebooks are not currently guaranteed to stable or be updated with experimental API changes.**

Jupyter notebooks demonstrating use cases.

* `conformer_energies.ipynb`: Given a SMILES string, generate conformers and compute the single-point energy via GROMACS and OpenMM and compare to a result generated by the OpenFF toolkit.
* `ligand_in_water/ligand_in_water.ipynb`: Solvate a ligand in water and prepare a simulation.
* `packed_box/packed_box.ipynb`: Prepare a box of organic species for a simulation and compare the
  results of OpenMM, GROMACS, Amber, and LAMMPS.
* `protein_ligand/protein_ligand.ipynb`: Prepare a protein-ligand system for simulation using
  OpenFF tools and compare the results of OpenMM, GROMACS, Amber, and LAMMPS.
* `openmm/openmm.ipynb`: Prepare a box of organic species for a simulation with OpenMM.
* `lammps/lammps.ipynb`: Prepare a box of organic species for a simulation with LAMMPS.
* `foyer-showcase/solvated-nanoparticle.ipynb`: Use [`mBuild`](https://mbuild.mosdef.org/) to construct a silica nanoparticle solvated in tetrahydrofuran and then parametrize the nanoparticle with OPLS-AA via [`Foyer`](https://foyer.mosdef.org/) and Sage.

## Deprecated examples

* `optimize-with-jax.ipynb`: Run a minimal parameter optimization using JAX.
* `parameter_replacement.ipynb`: Partially replace parameters in a parametrized system with values from a second force field.
* `parameter_splitting.ipynb`: Split one SMIRKS pattern into two after parametrization.
